I hope you were able to find the Maven dependency.
If not, it's as simple as typing maven and then you look for mockito dependency.
Now when you click the first link that is available,
you'll see the Maven repository and you'll see the mockito-all.
This is the page that tells us all the versions that are available,
where are they available,
what is the current usages and when was this released.
I'm going to go with 1.10.19 since it seems like a high usage number.
The moment I click this,
it gets copied to the clipboard.
I'm going to go in add it right here.
So right-click, paste.
Now what Intellergy is going to do,
is it's going to start looking for this dependency in
the Maven repository and it will download the dependency for us.
So you just saw that it changed the color from red to, I think it's white.
Then what that means is that it finished downloading the dependency onto your local.
So that was what we just added.
Now, let's look at this helper class.
We want to write the tests for this helper class.
If you look at the folder structure,
the test application has src.
Under src, we have main and tests.
Main is what contains
your actual development code and all your tests would go under test.
Now, why does it have to go on our test?
So that we can have segregation between actual code and tests.
The folder structure would look similar.
Which means that, let's say that you have another sub-folder under
testing which had helper inside it,
then in that case,
you would have to mimic that under testing here again and then you would have to write
your test for the class that you're trying to write the test
for with a test added to the end of the class name.
So I already have this test class here and
what I'm going to do is I'm going to delete this and I'm going to recreate it.
As you saw, this was empty.
I just added it as a place holder.
That's another terminology that you should know.
Here. Now, I right-clicked on it and I do
"New" and I look for tests or I'm creating a Java class.
This would be a class.
Like I'd mentioned, since our code is under helper,
we would usually append test to be innovate which tells us
that this is the test class for the helper class.
Now, what I'm going to do is I'm going to start writing some tests in this class.
But before I start writing that,
let me introduce a few annotations to you.
The first one being test.
Now what this annotation does,
is that it identifies your method as a test method.
I am going to write public void test and this is the test that I created.
So right now it shows as red.
The test annotation is red because JUnit four was
not added to the path so I just added that.
Now, I'm going to add or import junit.test into this class.
So let me just go ahead and run this.
Now the moment I added this test,
I had this availability of Run 'test()',
Debug 'test()', Run 'test()' with Coverage.
I'll explain each of them to you.
But let me just start with the first one which is Run 'test()'.
So the first and the foremost thing that you notice here is
that this helper test shows green.
What this means is that the test passed and as you see there was no method body,
it just ran on the basis of this annotation test.
So now, let's look at one of the methods that are available using JUnits.
Let's start with this method called assertEquals.
Now this method just ascertains that the first value
which is the one on the left is the actual.
Let me add this dependency, first of all.
Now let's go to the method definition and read a little bit more about it.
So if you go through the source code of assertEquals,
you will see that this column contains the first value which is a message,
the second value which is the object and the third value which is actual.
So I'm going to go back to the previous implementation.
According to that, I should technically have a message here.
Message and the expected value and here,
I would have some actual value.
I'm just adding the placeholders right now so that I can fill it later.
However, this is not the method that I want to call.
I want to call this method because I don't want to put any message.
But in actual tests,
you may want to write messages as well.
So what this does is that,
this will empty out the first value which is message
and then it will pass expected and actual in the right places.
So what does expected mean and what does actual mean?
So as you see,
Intellergy is extremely good at showing you what are
the expected and actual placeholders so
you know that this is where I need to put the expected value,
this is where I need to put the actual value.
Let's say that I want to verify that
a number which is 3 is the same as a number which is 3.
Let me run this test.
Running this also shows that it passed.
Let me change it to 4.
I was expecting a 4,
but actual, a 3.
As you may have guessed,
this is going to produce a failure.
So let's look at the final result here.
I'm going to expand this for you.
As you see, we were expecting a four,
but we got an actual value of three.
So this is what assert equal does.
There are several methods that are available under test.
Let's go over a few more methods that this assert class gives to us.
So let's say that we type assert.
Here are all the overloaded methods that are available to take a look at.
So as you see, if we pass three float values,
this is the method that's going to be called so on, so forth.
We also have a assertNotEquals
and it takes different forms or different data types as parameters.
You also could use ArraysEquals which pretty much takes the int array,
byte arrays and compares it against actuals.
We will look into this again in the later half.
So what I would like you to do is at this point in time,
I would like you to go over all the different methods that are
available under assert so that in future when you're writing test cases,
you know already what are the assert methods that you can
use so it could give you ideas of how to write test or what tests you can write.
You don't need to memorize all of them because as you see here,
you have them available to you.
But it will be a good idea to go over the methods from either the source doc.
So source doc is nothing,
but going to the actual source code.
Sometimes I find myself going to
the source code and looking at the details of how it was implemented.
It also makes you a good programmer because you
know the underlying implementation and it gives you
idea how to implement various solution to different problems in general.
But if you find this a little difficult,
then what I would recommend you to do is go to the link provided in the video and
go over the link which tells you about
all the methods that are readily available for asserts.